# Attendance_and_face_recognition

Face recognition with attendance management system

In an educational institution, students become the responsibility of the institute. Currently there are static surveillance systems thatcould only capture and storerecorded surveillance videos.  Thus these systems turn a blind eye to any malicious or indiscipline activity happening around the learning environment and it’s practically difficult to have manpower employed 24/7 for monitoring. So arises a billion dollar question, “Why not incorporate Artificial Intelligence in to surveillance systems to solve the issue?”.Students in general tend to break rules and involve in-disciplinary activities such as loitering, smoking, man-handling etc. These activities are carried out by the students due to the lack of proper physical monitoring and static surveillance systems.

In educational organizations, the presence of surveillance systems can serve as a reminder for students about the importance of professional behaviour. As the existing static surveillance systems are not capable of incorporating situational awareness across multiple scales of space and time, there is a necessity to incorporate intelligent monitoring system into the surveillance system. This proposed work aims to create a smart surveillance system that aims to assist education community by identifying and providing reliable real –time alerts. 
The proposed Smart Surveillance System intelligently recognizes the students in the remote areas of the campus and provides information to the monitoring system. The intelligence in monitoring system is designed with ability to identify the loitering students around the campus and generate/send alert messages to the monitoring person/control room/concerned authority. Hence, the proposed system would help education organization to monitor the students in order to have a healthy educational environment.As a way of reducing in-disciplinary activities,and enhance the professionalism in education system, it is important to imbibe artificial intelligence in surveillance systems.
